=head1 NAME

PDT::Spec - Specification for PDT

=head1 *EARLY STAGE WARNING*

This module is currently in the early stages. For the latest please check the
github page at L<http://github.com/exodist/PDT>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

PDT-Spec is the current specification for PDT.

=head1 WHAT IS PDT?

PDT stands for Perl Development and Testing. It is a centralized P2P testing
framework for perl. Ever have a hard time testing your module on a platform to
which you don't have access? Ever have to wait a couple days to see if your
locally passing tests are failing in cpan testers? Than this application is for
you.

This application handles perl testing in a non-passive way. Instead of waiting
and hoping someone will test your module on an obscure platform, you can push
your module to be tested on that platform immedietly.

=head1 HOW IT WILL WORK

The PDT network will consist of loosley connected web servers. A server will
track testing requests, and hosts willing to run them. A client will post a
testing request to the server. A host will regularily query the server for a
test request. Once a host finishes running the test it will post the results
back to the server.

=head1 SERVER

The server will be a catalyst based webapp. The following is a preliminary list
of controllers. This is likely to change. Data will be exchanged using json.
Some controllers will have a form when loaded without a post.

=over 4

=item servers

Provides a list of other servers.

=item request

Used by a client to issue a request. Takes a plugin name, and host
specifications and/or a specific host id.

=item fetch

Used by a host to fetch a request. A host will post its host id so that the
server can lookup it's specifications.

=item respond

Used by a host to post a responce to a request.

=item register

Used by a host to register it's capabilities. Also used by other servers to
register.

=item stats

Random statistics.

=item hosts

List of hosts that are registered.

=item requests

Pending requests.

=back

=head1 HOST

Hosts will be nodes willing to do some work. Hosts are shared by generous
people making their system available to test perl code. Every task type will be
a plugin, by default no plugins will be installed. Hosts can choose what
features they wish to provide.

The main functionality plugin to use will be basic testing. This module will
obtain the source pushed by a client, and run the test suite reporting the
results back to the client. In the event of a failure plugins can be devised to
help find the problem.

The main benefit here is that when a test failes on a host you will be able to
continue working with that host, using provided features to immedietly solve
the problem. No need to guess at the problem, upload a potential fix, and wait
for the next testers results. No need to directly pester any cpan-testers
either.

=head1 CLIENT

The client is the user interface to the network. Ideally a command can be as
simple as:

    $ pdt-client test -arch x86_64-linux -source git://source.com/myrepo.git
    ... Test Results ...
    ... host ID to retry when tests fail ...

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

=over 4

=item Sparse Dependancies for hosts and clients

We want people to volunteer to be host. We also want the testing network to be
easily accessible on all architectures and operating systems. If people need to
install a beast such as Moose, and it is not packaged by their operating
system, they may give up. In some cases people may have politics or conditions
that mean they absolutely cannot install too many modules.

=item Security

Hosts are putting themselves on the line providing their system for tester use.
Every feature and service a host can offer must be a plugin. - TODO need more
details/work here.

=item Ease of installation and use

If people have to work hard to install their testing framework they may just
skip it.

=back

=head1 IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS

=over 4

=item Catalyst web-server

=item Simple CLI client/host interface

=item Plugins for features

The core features will be very minimal, all others will be plugins.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Chad Granum L<exodist7@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010 Chad Granum

PDT is free software; Standard perl licence.

PDT is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the license for more details.
